                    WINDOW MENU

  The window menu can also be invoked by pressing Alt-w.

  Clone window:
	Open a new window of the same size as the current window,
	with the same graph in it.

  New window:
	Open a new (empty) window.

  Rename window:
	Change the title of the window.

  Resize viewable window:
        Resize the window in which the graph is displayed. The window can 
	also be resized by clicking on one of its corners with the left 
	mouse button and dragging the mouse.

  Resize canvas:
	Set the new size of the canvas. Canvas size will be set to at least 
	the size of the viewable window.

  Default fonts:
	Change the fonts used for node labels and weights. The change will 
	take effect immediately. 'xlsfonts' is invoked to check that the 
	new fonts are valid. Many screen fonts accepted by 'xlsfonts' don't 
	have a corresponding postscript	font, so try to choose simple fonts 
	like times, courier or helvetica.

  Default dash pattern:
	Change the dash pattern for node and edge outlines. You can choose 
	to apply or not to apply the new dash patterns to the already 
	existing nodes and edges. 

  Default node radius: 
	Change the default node radius. You can choose to apply or not to 
	apply the new radius to the already existing nodes. 

  Interactive Mode:
	Turn on/off interactive mode. If interactive mode is enabled, nodes 
	can be created, deleted, or moved around with simple mouse actions.

  Mouse tracking:
	Turn on/off mouse tracking. If mouse tracking is enabled, a small 
	rectangle with the current mouse position over the canvas will appear 
	in the lower right corner of the canvas.

  (re)Scale graph:
	Rescale the graph and the canvas, the size of the viewable window 
	will not change. The following options are available: scale by a 
	given factor (like .5, 2), scale by any factor, shrink graph and 
	canvas so that canvas fits into window, reset the graph and canvas 
	to their original sizes.

  Erase window:
	Erase contents of this window.

  Quit from window:
	Quit from this window. If this is the last window, quit from the 
	entire application.

